hello this is Darryl Dickens with art
pal overcame and this video is in my
series on building your own artist
website using WordPress this is module
one and I'm going to cover over cover
the basic differences between wordpress
com then wordpress.org because I know
that there is some confusion this
confusion happens when you google the
word WordPress if you've heard about it
and you want to use it these kind of
results come up and you'll see quickly
there's dot org entercom the dot-com is
a blogging service which you see here a
lot of folks host their blogs it's
designed specifically for very personal
blogs it's not really intended for any
sort of commercial endeavor so it's
definitely good if you're an artist that
just wants to get your art out there and
you don't want to pay a lot you just
want to have a simple website where
presses com is definitely a good place
to get started there are a few downsides
WordPress does put ads that's kind of
how they support themselves and how they
keep it free you can pay to have those
ads removed i believe it's about thirty
dollars a year the other downside is you
do not get your own domain name unless
you pay for it so by default it's your
domain wordpress com hey a little bit
extra pay for the domain and then you
can have your own but you're still
hosted on wordpress wordpress.org is
software it's basically content
management software that you have
download or either install directly
through your web host and we'll get to
all that here in a second head back over
here first let's talk about wordpress
com like I said it is a blogging service
you
it is pretty much designed for bloggers
it does have some benefits is that they
pretty much do all the maintenance on it
they take care of security and spam and
backups and upgrades and stuff like that
you are limited though limited in your
design WordPress runs off of themes
which we'll get to in a later module and
in the orc press.com version you're
limited to the themes that they have
already uploaded like I said you're not
allowed to do anything commercial and as
an artist that would include advertising
art for sale so that's a good thing to
keep in mind that if you do hope to sell
directly through your website wordpress
com is not what you want and you also
have to pay to remove ads to me this is
a big one I've been on a lot of folks
who supposedly have professional
websites on wordpress.com and you see
ads for their competitors basically the
professional website ends up looking
very unprofessional so that's the gist
of wordpress com it is a good place to
get started because it is completely
free like I say so if you just want to
get your images out there and you just
want to start to get in the practice of
blogging and being in WordPress and on
the web it is a good place to get
started because it can easily be
transferred to wordpress.org so let's
cover wordpress.org
now wordpress.org is software and this
is where it can get confusing because it
is software that you need to upload to a
hosting account so that means you're
going to need two things there are two
requirements for it a domain name domain
name domain name domain name or you know
a URL URLs these days um probably go for
anywhere from eight to fifteen dollars a
year and you're also going to need web
hosting web hosting you can find for
what you're going to need most likely
for seven dollars a month these are the
two basic things you're going to need to
get started on wordpress.org most web
host these days make it easy to install
using one click install you don't have
to go through the upload method and a
lot let's cover some of the advantages
of wordpress org one there's no limits
it's a nice big advantage and by no
limits I mean there's no limits in the
design or function of the site that's
basically because for design WordPress
uses themes and for functions that use
plugins which we will cover later but
there are thousands of these out there
for completely free and they're easy to
upload so it's very easy to change the
look and the function of your site
through themes and plugins but you do
have some responsibilities for one
you're in charge of things like security
backups and spam it is up to you to
manage all of this on your own and you
also need to manage any updates just
like most software out there WordPress
goes through a series of updates usually
related to security and it is up to you
to keep WordPress updated so there's a
little bit more maintenance involved
with this but this is really what you
want wordpress.org gives you the freedom
that you need to do to create that
artist website for yourself so this has
been a brief video covering the
differences between wordpress com and
wordpress.org thanks for checking it out
again my name is Daryl Dickens with art
palaver com